writeup_template.md, before:

##Writeup Template
###You can use this file as a template for your writeup if you want to submit it as a markdown file, but feel free to use some other method and submit a pdf if you prefer.

---

**Advanced Lane Finding Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Compute the camera calibration matrix and distortion coefficients given a set of chessboard images.
* Apply a distortion correction to raw images.
* Use color transforms, gradients, etc., to create a thresholded binary image.
* Apply a perspective transform to rectify binary image ("birds-eye view").
* Detect lane pixels and fit to find the lane boundary.
* Determine the curvature of the lane and vehicle position with respect to center.
* Warp the detected lane boundaries back onto the original image.
* Output visual display of the lane boundaries and numerical estimation of lane curvature and vehicle position.

[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./camera_cal/calibration15.jpg "Distorted"
[image2]: ./undistort.jpg "Undistorted"
[image3]: ./road-undistorted.png "Road Transformed"
[image4]: ./road-binary.png "Binary Example"
[image5]: ./road-region.png "Region of interest"
[image6]: ./road-perspective.png "Road perspective"
[image7]: ./road-polifit.png "Fitted curves"
[image8]: ./road-output.png "Output"
[image9]: ./road-process.png "Complete process"
[video1]: ./result.mp4 "Video"

## [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/571/view) Points
###Here I will consider the rubric points individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---
###Writeup / README

####1. Provide a Writeup / README that includes all the rubric points and how you addressed each one.  You can submit your writeup as markdown or pdf.  [Here](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Advanced-Lane-Lines/blob/master/writeup_template.md) is a template writeup for this project you can use as a guide and a starting point.  

You're reading it!

###Camera Calibration

####1. Briefly state how you computed the camera matrix and distortion coefficients. Provide an example of a distortion corrected calibration image.

Camera matrix and coeficients were calculated using cv2.calibrateCamera(), I used findChessboardCorners and drawChessboardCorners instead of doing it manually like in the course work. Once I got the `mtx` and `dist` values I just hardcoded them on my ipython notebook.

```
MTX = np.array([[  1.15662906e+03,   0.00000000e+00,   6.69041437e+02],
 [  0.00000000e+00,   1.15169194e+03,   3.88137240e+02],
  [  0.00000000e+00,   0.00000000e+00,   1.00000000e+00]])
DIST = np.array([[-0.2315715,  -0.12000537, -0.00118338,  0.00023305,  0.15641571]])
```

I then used the output `objpoints` and `imgpoints` to compute the camera calibration and distortion coefficients using the `cv2.calibrateCamera()` function.  I applied this distortion correction to the test image using the `cv2.undistort()` function and obtained this result: 

![alt text][image1]

###Pipeline (single images)

####1. Provide an example of a distortion-corrected image.
To demonstrate this step, I will describe how I apply the distortion correction to one of the test images like this one:
Here is an example of the road image corrected for distortion using cv2.undistort:

```
    undist = cv2.undistort(img, mtx, dist, None, mtx)
```

![alt text][image2]

####2. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you used color transforms, gradients or other methods to create a thresholded binary image.  Provide an example of a binary image result.

Near cell #4 in a section called `Thresholding` the code using vertical and horizontal gradients as well as color transformations can be found. No magnitude or angle gradient was used.:

```
    gradx = abs_sobel_thresh(img, orient='x', sobel_kernel=ksize, thresh=(20, 190))
    grady = abs_sobel_thresh(img, orient='y', sobel_kernel=ksize, thresh=(30, 190))
    s_binary = filter_s_select(img, thresh=(150, 255))
    l_binary = filter_l_select(img, thresh=(190, 250))
    
    combined = np.zeros_like(s_binary)
    combined[((gradx == 1) & (grady == 1)) | (s_binary == 1) | (l_binary == 1)] = 1
    combined_gray = np.uint8(255*combined)
```




![alt text][image3]

####3. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you performed a perspective transform and provide an example of a transformed image.

The warping code can be found near cell 5, in a section called `Perspective transformation`:

```
    # Warp the blank back to original image space using inverse perspective matrix (Minv)
    newwarp = cv2.warpPerspective(lane, minv, (img.shape[1], img.shape[0])) 
    # Combine the result with the original image
    result = cv2.addWeighted(img, 1, newwarp, 0.4, 0)
```

![alt text][image6]

####4. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you identified lane-line pixels and fit their positions with a polynomial?

The XY polinomial fit was taken almost verbatim from the udacity course work. It uses a sliding window over the image to separate out good and bad left and right lanes.

Tne np.polyfit was used to obtain a second order polynomial.

The section near cell #6 is called `Extrapolate lines and draw them on the screen`
![alt text][image7]

####5. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you calculated the radius of curvature of the lane and the position of the vehicle with respect to center.

The way to calculate the curvature radius and the vehicle position is to calculate a new x / y curve based on meters instead of pixels and with that get a radius using a formula based on the derivative of the curve. With the lane positions it is possible to average them and use that to calculate the position of the road based on the road width (average equaling zero means the car is centered).

```
    # Fit new polynomials to x,y in world space
    left_fit_cr = np.polyfit(ploty*ym_per_pix, left_fitx*xm_per_pix, 2)
    right_fit_cr = np.polyfit(ploty*ym_per_pix, right_fitx*xm_per_pix, 2)
    left_curverad = ((1 + (2*left_fit_cr[0]*y_eval*ym_per_pix + left_fit_cr[1])**2)**1.5) / np.absolute(2*left_fit_cr[0])
    right_curverad = ((1 + (2*right_fit_cr[0]*y_eval*ym_per_pix + right_fit_cr[1])**2)**1.5) / np.absolute(2*right_fit_cr[0])

    cv2.putText(output_image,'curvature left: {0} m'.format(int(left_curverad)),(10,70), font, 2,(255,255,255),2)

    x1_meters = left_fitx[-1]*xm_per_pix
    x2_meters = right_fitx[-1]*xm_per_pix
    my_x = (warped_binarized.shape[1]/2)*xm_per_pix
    x_middle_meters = (x1_meters + x2_meters)/2
    off_road_center = my_x - x_middle_meters
    if  off_road_center > 0:
        cv2.putText(output_image,'car is {0:.2f} m right of center'.format(off_road_center),(10,130), font, 1.6,(255,255,255),2)
    else:
        cv2.putText(output_image,'car is {0:.2f} m left of center'.format(-1*off_road_center),(10,130), font, 1.6,(255,255,255),2)
```

####6. Provide an example image of your result plotted back down onto the road such that the lane area is identified clearly.

Here is an example:

![alt text][image8]

---

###Pipeline (video)

####1. Provide a link to your final video output.  Your pipeline should perform reasonably well on the entire project video (wobbly lines are ok but no catastrophic failures that would cause the car to drive off the road!).

Here is a sample image showing the full pipeline:

![][image9]

Here's a [link to my video result](./result.mp4)

---

###Discussion

####1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Trees!! The trees requires adaptive tuning parameters, it shows how the solution that I found is not very stable. Calculating sensitivity for changes in each of the params and a broader parameter change could help find a solution that is more robust but it requires a lot more computing (and studying time).

In my computer, processing took about one second per frame, or 20 minutes for the whole video, a faster computer (or paralellization) would be really nice in a project like this. It is also not straightforward to me how to accelerate it in real world solutions short of creating code for an FPGA.

Commit message:

Added curvature and distance from center

writeup_template.md, after:

##Writeup Template
###You can use this file as a template for your writeup if you want to submit it as a markdown file, but feel free to use some other method and submit a pdf if you prefer.

---

**Advanced Lane Finding Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Compute the camera calibration matrix and distortion coefficients given a set of chessboard images.
* Apply a distortion correction to raw images.
* Use color transforms, gradients, etc., to create a thresholded binary image.
* Apply a perspective transform to rectify binary image ("birds-eye view").
* Detect lane pixels and fit to find the lane boundary.
* Determine the curvature of the lane and vehicle position with respect to center.
* Warp the detected lane boundaries back onto the original image.
* Output visual display of the lane boundaries and numerical estimation of lane curvature and vehicle position.

[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./camera_cal/calibration15.jpg "Distorted"
[image2]: ./undistort.jpg "Undistorted"
[image3]: ./road-undistorted.png "Road Transformed"
[image4]: ./road-binary.png "Binary Example"
[image5]: ./road-region.png "Region of interest"
[image6]: ./road-perspective.png "Road perspective"
[image7]: ./road-polifit.png "Fitted curves"
[image8]: ./road-output.png "Output"
[image9]: ./road-process.png "Complete process"
[image10]: ./road-annotation.png "Curvature annotation"
[video1]: ./result.mp4 "Video"

## [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/571/view) Points
###Here I will consider the rubric points individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---
###Writeup / README

####1. Provide a Writeup / README that includes all the rubric points and how you addressed each one.  You can submit your writeup as markdown or pdf.  [Here](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-Advanced-Lane-Lines/blob/master/writeup_template.md) is a template writeup for this project you can use as a guide and a starting point.  

You're reading it!

###Camera Calibration

####1. Briefly state how you computed the camera matrix and distortion coefficients. Provide an example of a distortion corrected calibration image.

Camera matrix and coeficients were calculated using cv2.calibrateCamera(), I used findChessboardCorners and drawChessboardCorners instead of doing it manually like in the course work. Once I got the `mtx` and `dist` values I just hardcoded them on my ipython notebook.

```
MTX = np.array([[  1.15662906e+03,   0.00000000e+00,   6.69041437e+02],
 [  0.00000000e+00,   1.15169194e+03,   3.88137240e+02],
  [  0.00000000e+00,   0.00000000e+00,   1.00000000e+00]])
DIST = np.array([[-0.2315715,  -0.12000537, -0.00118338,  0.00023305,  0.15641571]])
```

I then used the output `objpoints` and `imgpoints` to compute the camera calibration and distortion coefficients using the `cv2.calibrateCamera()` function.  I applied this distortion correction to the test image using the `cv2.undistort()` function and obtained this result: 

![alt text][image1]

###Pipeline (single images)

####1. Provide an example of a distortion-corrected image.
To demonstrate this step, I will describe how I apply the distortion correction to one of the test images like this one:
Here is an example of the road image corrected for distortion using cv2.undistort:

```
    undist = cv2.undistort(img, mtx, dist, None, mtx)
```

![alt text][image2]

####2. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you used color transforms, gradients or other methods to create a thresholded binary image.  Provide an example of a binary image result.

Near cell #4 in a section called `Thresholding` the code using vertical and horizontal gradients as well as color transformations can be found. No magnitude or angle gradient was used.:

```
    gradx = abs_sobel_thresh(img, orient='x', sobel_kernel=ksize, thresh=(20, 190))
    grady = abs_sobel_thresh(img, orient='y', sobel_kernel=ksize, thresh=(30, 190))
    s_binary = filter_s_select(img, thresh=(150, 255))
    l_binary = filter_l_select(img, thresh=(190, 250))
    
    combined = np.zeros_like(s_binary)
    combined[((gradx == 1) & (grady == 1)) | (s_binary == 1) | (l_binary == 1)] = 1
    combined_gray = np.uint8(255*combined)
```




![alt text][image3]

####3. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you performed a perspective transform and provide an example of a transformed image.

The warping code can be found near cell 5, in a section called `Perspective transformation`:

```
    # Warp the blank back to original image space using inverse perspective matrix (Minv)
    newwarp = cv2.warpPerspective(lane, minv, (img.shape[1], img.shape[0])) 
    # Combine the result with the original image
    result = cv2.addWeighted(img, 1, newwarp, 0.4, 0)
```

![alt text][image6]

####4. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you identified lane-line pixels and fit their positions with a polynomial?

The XY polinomial fit was taken almost verbatim from the udacity course work. It uses a sliding window over the image to separate out good and bad left and right lanes.

Tne np.polyfit was used to obtain a second order polynomial.

The section near cell #6 is called `Extrapolate lines and draw them on the screen`
![alt text][image7]

####5. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you calculated the radius of curvature of the lane and the position of the vehicle with respect to center.

The way to calculate the curvature radius and the vehicle position is to calculate a new x / y curve based on meters instead of pixels and with that get a radius using a formula based on the derivative of the curve. With the lane positions it is possible to average them and use that to calculate the position of the road based on the road width (average equaling zero means the car is centered).

![alt text][image10]

The code can be found in the draw_lane function (extract values) and the pipeline function (draw values).

####6. Provide an example image of your result plotted back down onto the road such that the lane area is identified clearly.

Here is an example:

![alt text][image8]

---

###Pipeline (video)

####1. Provide a link to your final video output.  Your pipeline should perform reasonably well on the entire project video (wobbly lines are ok but no catastrophic failures that would cause the car to drive off the road!).

Here is a sample image showing the full pipeline:

![][image9]

Here's a [link to my video result](./result.mp4)

---

###Discussion

####1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Trees!! The trees requires adaptive tuning parameters, it shows how the solution that I found is not very stable. Calculating sensitivity for changes in each of the params and a broader parameter change could help find a solution that is more robust but it requires a lot more computing (and studying time).

In my computer, processing took about one second per frame, or 20 minutes for the whole video, a faster computer (or paralellization) would be really nice in a project like this. It is also not straightforward to me how to accelerate it in real world solutions short of creating code for an FPGA.
